**3 October 2020**  
In the year 2000, all I wanted, as a Black girl Radiohead fan, was to live with them out at these extremities. The woozy keyboard swirl and processed vocal gibberish of Everything in Its Right Place, the album’s opening track, announced the very opposite: all was about to be thrown thrillingly out of whack. The sublime Treefingers is a glimmering object that spins slowly around the universe; the spectacular plaintive sorrow of Motion Picture Soundtrack was an invitation to dive into a cinematic dreamscape of heartbreak. Why not live in these worlds, I thought, with the disaster of the US presidential election recount unfolding deep into the fall?

What makes Radiohead’s music such a radical endeavour to me are these deeply introspective other worlds, built as bulwarks against the tyrannies of everyday life (a world where “we’ve got heads on sticks / you’ve got ventriloquists,” as Thom Yorke sings in nightmarishly garbled vocals on the title track). Kid A’s recurring lyrical insistence on “slipping away” is nothing new to rock masculinity, an anxious nod to the stubborn will to “not fade” dating back to the genre’s earliest days. But it is also a gorgeous, revolutionary invitation to exist in an elsewhere, in a way that resonates with what scholars often refer to as the Black Radical tradition in music.  
**Daphne A Brooks - Why Radiohead are the Blackest white band of our times - [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/music/2020/oct/02/why-radiohead-are-the-blackest-white-band-of-our-times)**

**6 July 2020**  
Before protest there is a oppression, lack of popular support, and the hard work of awareness-raising. After that comes the high-octane action, the moral clarity – and allies hop on board. But once the first blood rush of protest subsides, the people who are still on the streets are mocked by their erstwhile allies, impatient to find fault with the movement and get back to their lives without any further disruption. What was universally celebrated a few weeks ago is now faintly embarrassing: too radical, too combative, almost comically unrealistic. You might think of the trajectory of the Black Lives Matter protests so far as like that famous quote misattributed to Gandhi, but this time in reverse: first you win, then they fight you, then they laugh at you, then they ignore you.  
**Nesrine Malik - It seems black lives don't matter quite so much, now that we've got to the hard bit - [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/jul/06/black-lives-matter-protests-change-demands)**

**10 May 2020**  
How many combinations of unintended consequences and human reactions to them does it take to detour us into a future that seems to defy any obvious trend? Not many. That’s why predicting the future accurately is so difficult. Some of the most mistaken predictions I’ve seen are of the straight-line variety–that’s the kind that ignores the inevitability of unintended consequences, ignores our often less-than-logical reactions to them, and says simply, “In the future, we will have more and more of whatever’s holding our attention right now.” If we’re in a period of prosperity, then in the future, prosperity it will be. If we’re in a period of recession, we’re doomed to even greater distress. Of course, predicting an impossible state of permanent prosperity may well be an act of fear and superstitious hope rather than an act of unimaginative, straight-line thinking. And predicting doom in difficult times may have more to do with the sorrow and depression of the moment than with any real insight into future possibilities. Superstition, depression and fear play major roles in our efforts at prediction.

(…) So why try to predict the future at all if it’s so difficult, so nearly impossible? Because making predictions is one way to give warning when we see ourselves drifting in dangerous directions. Because prediction is a useful way of pointing out safer, wiser courses. Because, most of all, our tomorrow is the child of our today. Through thought and deed, we exert a great deal of influence over this child, even though we can’t control it absolutely. Best to think about it, though. Best to try to shape it into something good. Best to do that for any child.  
**Octavia E. Butler - A Few Rules For Predicting The Future - Exit the Apple - [Archive](https://web.archive.org/web/20150219020855/http://exittheapple.com/a-few-rules-for-predicting-the-future/)**

**28 April 2020**  
The problem with all forms of expertise in public policy is that it is often the most formidable salespeople who claim greater certainty than the evidence allows who are invited to jet around the world advising governments. But the irony for behavioural scientists is that this is a product of them trading off, and falling prey to, the very biases they have made their names calling out.

I can only imagine how easy it might have been for Johnson to succumb to confirmation bias in looking for reasons to delay a lockdown: what prime minister wants to shut down the economy? And it is the optimism bias of the behavioural tsars that has led them to place too much stock in their own judgment in a world of limited evidence. But this isn’t some experiment in a university psychology department - it is a pandemic and lives are at stake.  
**Sonia Sodha -  Nudge theory is a poor substitute for hard science in matters of life or death - [The Observer](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2020/apr/26/nudge-theory-is-a-poor-substitute-for-science-in-matters-of-life-or-death-coronavirus)**

**28 April 2020**  
“Pero no es que el sistema esté roto es que funciona así”, nos recuerda Carlos Fernández Liria: “El capitalismo no genera ocio, sino paro, que no es lo mismo. Paro y trabajo excesivo; pero de repartir nada, porque económicamente es imposible, la economía se pondría enferma con ese reparto”, así que entre la economía y nosotros, el sistema prefiere que enfermemos nosotros.

Esto lo corrobora la OMS cuando nos recuerda que cada año se suicidan unas 800 000 personas en el mundo y que la pobreza, el desempleo y las condiciones precarias de trabajo son sus principales responsables. Sorprende entonces, que la misma organización sugiera como soluciones parchecitos baratos como el ejercicio físico, los programas de prevención en las escuelas, la terapia y la medicación. La investigadora Noelle Sulivan pregunta, muy pertinentemente, si la pobreza y el paro son las principales causas de depresión, “¿No deberían nuestros remedios abordar los motores económicos de la pobreza y el desempleo en lugar de centrarse específicamente en programas escolares y ejercicio?” Y yo añadiría ¿en qué momento vamos a abordar los verdaderos factores que condicionan los problemas de salud mental?  
**Jara Aithany Pérez López and Diego Zaitegui - La Renta Básica Universal es la mejor garantía para nuestra salud mental - [VICE España](https://www.vice.com/es/article/m7qydy/renta-basica-universal-mejora-salud-mental)**

**28 April 2020**  
VIII. O que é o socialismo? Para muitos marxistas é a transformação das relações de produção – através da apropriação coletiva dos meios de produção – para permitir o livre desenvolvimento das forças produtivas. O ecossocialismo se reivindica de Marx, mas rompe explicitamente com este modelo produtivista. É claro que a apropriação coletiva é indispensável, mas as próprias forças produtivas também devem ser radicalmente transformadas: a) mudando suas fontes de energia (renováveis ao invés de combustíveis fósseis); b) reduzindo o consumo global de energia; c) reduzindo (“decrescimento”) a produção de bens e eliminando atividades desnecessárias (publicidade) e pragas (pesticidas, armas de guerra); d) pondo um fim à obsolescência programada. O ecossocialismo também implica a transformação dos padrões de consumo, das formas de transporte, do planejamento urbano, do modo de vida. Em suma, é muito mais do que uma mudança nas formas de propriedade: é uma mudança civilizacional, baseada em valores de solidariedade, igualdade-liberdade (egaliberté) e respeito pela natureza. A civilização ecossocialista rompe com o produtivismo e o consumismo para favorecer a redução do tempo de trabalho e, portanto, a extensão do tempo livre dedicado a atividades sociais, políticas, lúdicas, artísticas, eróticas, etc., etc. Marx chamou este objetivo de o “Reino da Liberdade”.

(…) XIII. Temos chance de ganhar esta batalha antes que seja tarde demais? Ao contrário dos pretensos “colapssólogos”, que proclamam em alto e bom som que a catástrofe é inevitável e que qualquer resistência é inútil, nós acreditamos que o futuro permanece aberto. Não há garantia de que este futuro seja ecossocialista: é objeto de uma aposta no sentido de Pascal, na qual se engaja todas as forças em “trabalhar para a incerteza”. Mas, como disse Bertolt Brecht, com grande e simples sabedoria: “Aquele que luta pode perder. Aquele que não luta já perdeu”.  
**Michael Löwy (trad. José Correa Leite) - XIII Teses sobre a catástrofe iminente (ecológica) e as formas (revolucionárias) de evitá-la - [Revista Movimento](https://movimentorevista.com.br/2020/04/xiii-teses-sobre-a-catastrofe-iminente-ecologica-e-as-formas-revolucionarias-de-evita-la/)**

**28 April 2020**  
Compared to carrying coal by rail, moving oil by sea eliminated the labour of coal heavers and stokers, and thus the power of organised workers to withdraw their labour from a critical point in the energy system. Transoceanic shipping operated beyond the territorial spaces governed by the labour regulations and other democratic rights won in the era of widespread coal and railway strikes. In fact shipping companies could escape the regulation of labour laws altogether - as well as the payment of taxes - by registering their vessels in Panama or under other ‘flags of convenience’, removing whatever limited powers of labour organising might have remained.

(…)The *Torrey Canyon*, an oil tanker owned by a Bermuda-based subsidiary of the Union Oil Company of California, registered in Liberia, chartered to BP, built in 1959 and rebuilt in 1966 in a Japanese shipyard to increase her size from 66,000 to 119,000 deadweight tons, ran aground off the coast of Cornwall, England, in March 1967. The tanker had set sail without knowing her final destination, and lacked detailed navigation charts for the coast of south-west England. The damage to the coastline and to wildlife was exacerbated by the lack of methods to handle large oil spills. The British government tried to set fire to the oil by having air defence forces bomb it with napalm, creating further damage and inadvertently revealing both their possession of the controversial weapon and the inaccuracy of the bombers (more than a quarter of the bombs missed their target).  
**Timothy Mitchell - Carbon Democracy, 2015 - page 38**

**26 April 2020**  
It can be difficult to work out quite what exactly it is about the past that so many in Morrissey’s generation long for. It certainly isn’t council housing, full employment, free education, public ownership or social mobility, because if these are noted at all, it’s in the context of decrying the Labour Party’s foolish utopianism in trying to resurrect them.

What it is, is a nostalgia for misery, a longing for boredom, a relocation of poverty from economics to aesthetics. The belligerent ghouls. The spineless bastards. The beatings. The ignorance. The pollution and the soot. The gay-bashing and the paki-bashing. The murders on the Moors. The young are not only resented for not having suffered these, the obsessive recall of them is a way of constantly re-living an experience of personal struggle and uprooting, an origin story for home ownership and bored affluence, whether that’s the pettier example of the paid-off mortgage or the purchased council house, or in Morrissey’s case, the villa in the hills of LA. And who stands in the way of this self-aggrandisement through re-enactment? The Asians, especially the Muslims. The young. The left. The “woke”. And here, Morrissey is truly the voice of a generation.  
**Owen Hatherley - Stop Me If You Think You've Heard This One Before: A Study in the Politics and Aesthetics of English Misery - [Verso blog](https://www.versobooks.com/blogs/4634-stop-me-if-you-think-you-ve-heard-this-one-before-a-study-in-the-politics-and-aesthetics-of-english-misery)**

**25 April 2020**  
Taken together, one message is clear: “The coronavirus is NOT the great equalizer.” With this in mind, many people are calling for more data on the disproportionate rates of infection and death among poor and racialized groups. And while I tend to support more data collection, I want to offer a caution. The facts alone will not save us.

According to a recent study on criminal justice reform out of Stanford, researchers demonstrated that “Using statistics to inform the public about racial disparities can backfire. Worse yet, it can cause some people to be more supportive of the policies that create those inequalities.” In other words, two people can see the same headline, “Black People Make up 40 percent of Covid-19 deaths in Michigan,” and come to very different conclusions! In fact, that is exactly what is happening.

Exhibit B: The US Surgeon General singled out Blacks and Latinos to urge “no drinking or smoking” as a preventative measure during the pandemic, which plays into a long history of government officials invoking the supposedly bad behavior of  racialized groups as the reason for their hardship. We see it with the very different responses to Black and White drug use, one is a crime and the other is a public health emergency.

The “culture of poverty” script is a reliable alibi that lets the bad behavior of powerful institutions off the hook, and goes back to at least the Moynihan Report in which Black women, in particular, are blamed for the so-called disfunctions of Black families and communities.  
**Ruha Benjamin - Black Skin, White Masks: Racism, Vulnerability & Refuting Black Pathology - [Department of African American Studies, Princeton](https://aas.princeton.edu/news/black-skin-white-masks-racism-vulnerability-refuting-black-pathology)**

**16 January 2020**  
RS: I think we have a political duty not to use it [social media] to vent, not to use it to write, and not to allow it to harness our personal relations, and we also have a duty to save as much of our free time as possible from being captured by capital. I don’t want to take a moralising tone, but it’s similar to the duty to take your life seriously. If you take your life seriously, and take an overview of it, it’s pretty hard to justify the things we allow ourselves to do all the time. It’s not like anyone’s pure, and I’m not in a position to offer anyone salvation, I’m just saying that if you can do something else with those 50,000 hours of your life, and can use it in a professional way…  
OH: Or you could go for a walk.  
RS: Well there is going for a walk – but you don’t always have to be doing something.  
**Richard Seymour and Owen Hatherley - [Tribune](https://tribunemag.co.uk/2020/01/the-twittering-machine)**

**11 October 2019**  
The self-made man: the man for whom we have to pretend we do not feel, do not need, is, as Hopper describes him, ‘simultaneously entitled, dismissive, and hard to get.’

Emerson believed that emotional dependence is the birthplace of shame. There is shame in being an object of empathy, he thought. There is shame in capitulating to requests for help.

A man ought to be able to withstand any degree of pain without the need to be soothed.

Reading this, I realised that Emerson’s self-made male archetype had seeped into my own belief system. Ever since I can remember, I have been convinced that there is shame not only in watching another person capitulate to my requests for help, but that there is shame in making the request at all.
In my romantic life, I learned not to ask for help because I knew, without ever being told, that in all likelihood the men sitting opposite me would see this as weakness.  
**Lucia Osborne-Crowley - The Paradox of Dependence - [Meanjin](https://meanjin.com.au/blog/the-paradox-of-dependence/)**

**31 August 2019**  
With social media addiction, there are many more variables than with drugs, so it is hard to know where to begin. The designers of the smartphone or tablet interface, for example, have made sure that it is pleasurable to engage with, hold, or even just to look at. The urge to reach, irritably, for the device during meals, conversations, parties and upon awakening, can partly be attributed to lust for the object and the soft, nacreous glow of the screen. Once we have navigated to the app, it is the platform designers who take control. For the duration of our visit, life is briefly streamlined, as with a video game, into a single visual flow, a set of soluble challenges, some dangled rewards and a game of chance. But the variety of possible experiences include voyeurism, approval and disapproval, gaming, news, nostalgia, socialising and regular social comparisons. If we are addicted, we might just be addicted to the activities that the platforms enable, from gambling to shopping to spying on “friends”.

The platforms don’t organise our experience according to a masterplan. As the sociologist Benjamin Bratton puts it, the mechanism is “strict and invariable”, but within that “autocracy of means”, the user is granted a relative “liberty of ends”. The protocols of the platform standardise and order the interactions of users. They use incentives and choke points to keep people committed to the machine. They manipulate ends for the benefit of their real clients – other firms. They bombard us with stimuli, learning from our responses, the better to teach us how to be the market demographic we have been identified as. But they do not force us to stay there, or tell us what to do with the hours spent on the platform. Even more so than in the case of drugs, then, the toxicity is something we as users bring to the game.  
**Richard Seymour - The machine always wins - [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2019/aug/23/social-media-addiction-gambling)**

**31 August 2019**  
Standard London millennial stuff = Millennials. Ah. That word. That concept. I find the obsession with generational divide – and actually assigning each tribe a name like being born at the same time makes you a homogeneous mass – and the ensuing culture war really really tiresome and lazy. It is a middle-class obsession. Plenty of people out there, of every generation, are experiencing the same problems, usually heightened because they have less money, no social mobility, suffer from prejudice and, most tragically, lack the contact email address of an opinion columns editor. Breaking news: people of all ages are being absolutely screwed by society – screaming about avocados, mortgages, and numbers on a birth certificate isn’t helpful, it’s a distraction. Can you all even hear yourselves?  
**The GuyLiner - Impeccable table manners: Peter and Hannah - [The GuyLiner](https://theguyliner.com/impeccable/peter-and-hannah)**

**8 August 2019**  
Agricultural expansion depended not upon the settling of America, but on continuous and fitful cycles of dispossession, settling, unsettling, and resettling. Nineteenth-century populations were highly mobile, and they often carved out ecologies and communities that were precarious, fragile, and intentionally temporary. Many farmers planted on a particular plot of land always with an eye on the exit: the fantasy of cheap, fertile land out West. Others went West, and when they found it, immediately fled back East in shock.

For the millions of slaves laboring in Southern agriculture, the notion of permanent settlement ran afoul of the stark realities implicit in the traffic of souls: Slavers sold their slaves to cover debts, to hedge declining labor productivity as slaves aged, to dispose of difficult or rebellious slaves, and for a thousand other reasons. The movements of individual slaves often demonstrated a complex pattern not of settlement and permanence, but of internal flow, migration, and transience that follows precisely the trajectory of cotton cultivation: southwest and downriver. For indigenous populations, the history of agricultural expansion was the history of repeated dispossession and forced resettlement on increasingly marginal lands.  
**Gabriel Rosenberg - Fetishizing family farms - [Boston Globe](https://www.bostonglobe.com/ideas/2016/04/09/fetishizing-family-farms/NJszoKdCSQWaq2XBw7kvIL/story.html)**

**13 July 2019**
3:AM: You’ve said recently of *London* that “It’s a joke about a man who thinks he’d be happier if London was more like Paris.”  
PK: In the 1990s, especially in the early years of the Labour government, there was a widespread view that London would be a much better place if it could become more like a European city. Richard Rogers, especially in the post-1997 context of the Urban Task Force, and the Architecture Foundation, co-founded by Ricky Burdett, who later became a kind of architectural fixer for the capital, were among the leaders of this tendency, and the peak of its influence was probably in 1999, when the RIBA awarded its Royal Gold Medal not to an architect, but to the city of Barcelona. When Pasqual Maragall came to accept the award, he made a speech in which he compared London under Thatcher to Spain under Franco. In the end, however, the Barcelonaisation of London seems to have consisted of a few landmark buildings, notably Tate Modern, the refurbishment of Trafalgar Square, the Jubilee Line extension, a lot of restaurants, and phenomena such as the gentrification of now-fashionable mid-20th century public-sector housing developments and the annual London Festival of Architecture. London has been equipped with the kind of culture that makes life tolerable for educated international bankers, but the revival of urbanism that Rogers and his milieu continue to argue for has not really progressed very far, other than in contexts such as the Olympic Games: ‘High Street 2012’, for example. Instead the city was thrown open to international finance, and has become notorious for its extraordinary economic inequality. It is surprising how many artists and other creative types formerly associated with London now live elsewhere, usually in places where space is cheaper, and everyday life much easier to enjoy.  
**Interview with Patrick Keiller: the future of landscape - [3:AM magazine](https://www.3ammagazine.com/3am/the-future-of-landscape-patrick-keiller/)**

**31 May 2019**  
Thoughts on Claire Denis’ High Life  
Self containment: the spaceship’s recycling and re-circulating all fluids/excretions. Piss/shit turned back into food via the garden. Sedative drugs extracted from piss and re-used.  
Incest: as the logical end-point of this self containment / self sufficiency. Monstrous vision of the dogs on the other spaceship happily breeding away. Desire for containment set against the taboo of incest (like *24 Shots of Rum*).

**12 May 2019**  
Today, the [Irish] landscape is greener than it has ever been. Much of the country is an expanse of bright fields of monoculture rye grass which is grazed by millions of cows. There is nothing natural about this vivid shade of green. It is, quite literally, artificial – the result of the application of chemical nitrogen fertiliser. Far from being an indicator of intrinsic fertility, the green of Ireland’s fields today is distinctly unnatural.

If today’s glossy green is the result of man-made chemicals, does the Irish landscape have a ‘natural’ colour palette? Can we imagine the land before humans exerted such a strong influence on its form and appearance?  
**Ella McSweeney – The Colour of Ireland - [National Gallery of Ireland](https://www.nationalgallery.ie/art-and-artists/exhibitions/past-exhibitions/shaping-ireland-landscapes-irish-art/colour-ireland)**

**18 March 2019**  
Compilation literature—I’m using a term invented by the Byzantinist Catherine Holmes here—is produced by copying, summarizing, reordering, updating, and excerpting pre-existing material, and shaping these materials to fit the author-compiler’s current situation or eventual goal. Byzantine compilation literature spans genres: military handbooks, agriculture, hagiography, medicine, law, moralizing literature, and dream interpretation are all locations where we can see Byzantine authors employing these methods. The sheer predominance of compilation literature suggests that it was highly efficacious for Byzantine persons—that producing texts in this way was productive, solved problems, was useful and effective.  
**Arkady Martine - What Byzantine Literary Culture Can Tell Us About Fanfiction - [TOR](https://www.tor.com/2019/03/18/on-the-cult-of-originality-what-byzantine-literary-culture-can-tell-us-about-fanfiction/)**

**13 March 2019**  
“Well never see bison roaming the entire Great Plains again,” said Proctor. “We’ll never see 20 million to 30 million bison again. No one is trying to go back in time. We’re trying to go forward. We’re trying to restore this important animal where we can, where people want them, and to the level where they will help restore the natural balance.”
For any of this to happen, Native American tribes will be key. They have the land and the desire to bring back the continent’s largest land mammal. And it’s not just bison, Proctor said. They have been instrumental in conserving wolves, grizzly bears, swift foxes and black-footed ferrets among other species.  
**Jeremy Hance - How Native American tribes are bringing back the bison from brink of extinction -  [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/dec/12/how-native-american-tribes-are-bringing-back-the-bison-from-brink-of-extinction)**

**18 November 2018**  
«D’une manière générale, faire pipi et caca dans l’eau n’est pas une bonne idée. Toute la richesse du produit se retrouve complètement diluée au départ et cela pose problème pour la récupérer après», précise Bruno Tassin, directeur de thèse de Fabien Esculier et membre d’OCAPI. Sans compter l’énergie et les frais pour traiter les eaux usées en aval. C’est pourquoi le programme de recherche planche sur une séparation des excréments à la source. Urine d’un côté, matière fécale de l’autre. Façon aussi de limiter les contaminations.

«L’urine est très peu facteur de maladies alors qu’au contraire les matières fécales sont le support de la transmission du choléra, de la gastro-entérite etc. Les seuls systèmes à la fois circulaires et salubres sont ceux qui séparent urine et matière fécale», détaille Fabien Esculier. Pour abattre résidus médicamenteux ou germes de l’urine, une solution consiste à faire reposer le liquide. Lors du stockage, le pH élevé et l’ammoniaque détruisent les molécules indésirables. C’est ce que recommande l’OMS, qui s’est penchée sur la façon dont utiliser sans risque les urines et matières fécales en agriculture.  
**Margaux Lacroux - L’urine, cette mine d’or qui s’ignore - [Libération](https://www.liberation.fr/france/2018/11/17/l-urine-cette-mine-d-or-qui-s-ignore_1692065)**

**8 October 2018**  
Even Jimmy Emmons, who seems about as self-assured as a farmer can be, acknowledged that he doesn’t even go to his local coffee shop anymore. If he did, he’d hear disapproval from his fellow farmers for doing things like planting his wheat directly into a living stand of plant residue without tilling or grazing his animals on cover crops.
On one panel at the conference, for instance, Adam Chappell responded to a comment made about the science of monoculture by saying, “There is no scientific evidence of the benefit of monoculture, but there is plenty of propaganda. The salesmen tell me constantly that I’m stupid, or that I’ll go broke” because he’s using fewer inputs.

Tuning out those messages, he added, has become a lot easier thanks to the network of other no-till farmers he stays in touch with online—Twitter and YouTube are popular platforms for sharing photos, observations, and videos of one another’s farms—and at conferences like No-till in the Plains.  
**Twilight Greenaway - No-Till farmers’ push for healthy soils ignites a movement in the plains - [Civil Eats](https://civileats.com/2018/02/13/no-till-farmers-push-for-healthy-soils-ignites-a-movement-in-the-plains/)**

**24 September 2018**  
In other words, namaste, as it circulates today, within global news media, its stock images, and associated pop culture trends like yoga tourism, functions as a controlling image. And so, as my Uber driver clearly demonstrated to me, it is easily weaponized as a slur. In this light, the interdependence of white paternalism and popular culture in the U.S. explodes the notion that namaste, as it appears in our daily lives today, is somehow innocuous, much less inclusive.  
**Rumya Putcha - On Yoga, Minstrelsy, and Namaste - [Namaste Nation](http://rumyaputcha.com/namaste/)**

**22 September 2018**  
Mais la vie y était moins chère et l’air y semblait meilleur qu’au centre de la ville, alors Maria Caccioppoli et son mari ont déménagé en 2003. Ce qu’ils ne savaient pas encore, c’est qu’ils venaient de s’installer au beau milieu d’une zone qui allait acquérir, plusieurs années après, une célébrité nationale, héritant au passage d’un surnom terrible : « Terra dei fuochi », littéralement « Terre des feux ». Une région maudite, constituée de 55 communes à cheval sur les provinces de Naples et de Caserte, transformée en décharge à ciel ouvert, où l’incurie des citoyens, la corruption des puissants et le crime organisé ont concouru à empoisonner le sol, au point de mettre gravement en péril la santé des habitants.

(…) « La prétendue crise des déchets n’était pas une crise, continue-t-il. Car le problème ne vient pas des déchets domestiques, mais des déchets industriels : pour vous donner un ordre de grandeur, on estime que l’Italie produit annuellement 30 millions de tonnes de déchets domestiques, et 135 millions de tonnes de déchets industriels… Or, le problème, c’est que les chiffres des déchets domestiques sont crédibles, tandis que ceux des déchets industriels reposent sur de simples déclarations ». Le militant cite l’exemple de Calvi Risorta, dans la province de Caserte, où l’entreprise, Pozzi Ginori, qui faisait des salles de bains et des carrelages et utilisait des solvants et des colorants, avait pris l’habitude d’enterrer ses déchets sur les lieux mêmes de l’usine. « Ils ont empoisonné 2 millions de mètres cubes de terre. On a gagné, aujourd’hui, et l’entreprise a été condamnée, mais au début, nous avions tout le monde contre nous, même les syndicats ! »  
**Jérôme Gautheret - A Naples, les damnés de la terre polluée - [Le Monde](https://www.lemonde.fr/contaminations-long-format/article/2018/09/07/a-naples-les-damnes-de-la-terre-des-feux_5351461_5347510.html)**

**15 September 2018**  
The word Barthes uses is *délicatesse* - a beautiful sequence of syllables to walk through the mouth. A decisive principle of the oeuvre, writes Tiphanie Samoyault, *délicatesse* is ‘the contrary of arrogance’ and another name for what Barthes called ‘the neutral’. But where the neutral is imagined as a utopia (in grammar, the neutral or neuter is neither masculine nor feminine, neither active nor passive; in politics, Barthes sees it as a refusal to take sides on complex conflictual questions phrased in such a way as to permit only yes/no answers), *délicatesse* is the name given to the small-scale, everyday practice of values such as goodwill and attentiveness, what Barthes also calls ‘sweetness’ (*la douceur*), values in the form of behaviours that parry the already decided, the apparent self-evidence, the all-purpose explanation - and attend to those small, fleeting and fragile moments in life where, as Samoyault puts it, ‘individuals truly express themselves in their truth’.  
**Kate Briggs - This Little Art, 2017

**15 September 2018**  
The salient point remains that after the Reformation much of late Tudor London was in a ruined condition, with walls and gateways and ancient stone windows to be glimpsed among the shops and houses which lined the lanes and thoroughfares. Even in the area outside the walls, where the palaces of the bishops and nobles had led down from the Strand towards the river, the grand houses were, according to the Venetian ambassador, ‘disfigured by the ruins of a multitude of churches and monasteries’.  
**Peter Ackroyd, London: The Biography, 2000**

**14 September 2018**  
I’m a wildlife biologist. Decades ago, I visited a team working to restore streamsides churned to bare gravel by placer mining. They were planting willow and alder in hopes of stabilizing the banks and preventing further erosion. Other vegetation could then move in and once again shade the passing waters, cooling them for native trout and spawning salmon. I was already picturing songbirds returning to nest in the lush foliage while mink, otters, and bears patrolled the shores, except the normally hardy willow and alder wouldn’t grow. They withered instead, and the banks stayed empty — until the team prepared the next batch to be planted by first soaking their roots in a broth containing certain fungi. This is common practice today. It wasn’t then. Besides changing the way I’ve planted trees at home ever since, the visit made me realize that my view of the most important wildlife in ecosystems might be upside-down.

(…) Ten to 20 percent of the sugars a plant produces through photosynthesis are absorbed by the mycorrhizae. In return, the fungus delivers many essential nutrients to the plant and increases drought resistance. Higher crop yields can be the result for gardeners. As the ends of the hyphae weave among soil particles via cracks and crannies too small for even the narrowest root hair, the mycelium becomes an auxiliary root system that’s in contact with a subterranean volume of soil from several hundred to 2,500 times greater than what the plant could reach alone.

(…) Although we think of fungi being most at home in deep, dank forests, they’re surprisingly abundant in open shrublands and prairies, too. The outer walls of hyphae contain gluey compounds that cause fine particles of earth to clump together on and around the threads. This process is a major factor in building soil structure and making the ground less vulnerable to erosion. Mycelial networks also play a valuable role in sequestering carbon within microclusters of filaments. They limit their partner plants’ exposure to heavy metals, such as lead, zinc and cadmium, by keeping those elements bound to the hyphae’s sticky sheath. At high latitudes and high altitudes, mycorrhizal fungi scrounge nutrients from cold, rocky soils. In boggy regions, the hyphae buffer plant partners from the high acid content of peaty soils. In saline ground, the hyphae help safeguard their partners from high salt concentrations. Mycorrhizae can also protect plants from pests and diseases.

**Douglas H. Chadwick - Mycorrhizal Fungi: The Amazing Underground Secret to a Better Garden - [Mother Earth News](https://www.motherearthnews.com/organic-gardening/gardening-techniques/mycorrhizal-fungi-zm0z14aszkin)**

**14 September 2018**  
The elite of Paris writers haven’t accepted Guène into their fold. She’s not alone in feeling that France’s stilted, hidebound literary scene badly needs “new blood”. But she thinks the literary establishment still believes the suburbs and poor people are “not noble or interesting enough to belong to literature or fiction”. It’s fine for people from the high-rises to play football, or rap but the idea of intellectuals existing there is still taboo. Oddly, considering her huge international success, she hasn’t won any prizes in France, just small informal awards voted by young people and readers. Does she think that will change? “The big prizes? Are you crazy? Never, never in my life will I get a prize. That would mean recognising that what I write is literature, that there are intellectuals in the banlieues. That’s where nothing’s changing and the neo-colonialist vision comes in to play … the idea that the ‘natives’ can do sport, sing and dance but not think.”  
**Interview with Faïza Guène - [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/books/2008/jun/05/culture.news)**

**14 September 2018**  
Most of her subjects, who often describe themselves as Afro-Russians, had grown up without much contact with other black people or with little of the shared culture and identity familiar to African-Americans and black Britons. “The amount we know about our African heritage varies from individual to individual,” says Johnson Artur. What they do have in common however, is a history of struggle against a commonly encountered resistance to the presence of black people in Russia. “Those who grew up and live in Russia still have to justify on a daily basis the fact that they are Russians too.” Johnson Artur hopes her project will go some to connecting and making visible the generation of black Russians that have grown up calling the country home.  
**Red Africa and Liz Johnson Artur - Black in the USSR - [Calvert Journal](https://www.calvertjournal.com/features/show/5388/red-africa-afrorussians-black-ussr-portraits-generation-identity)**

**17 June 2018**  
It is apparent that the Arab cinema industry has no qualms about practising Arab-washing, following in the footsteps of Hollywood and its penchant for whitewashing stories and characters.

But while in the US the use of blackface has been largely phased out, in Arab cinema it is constantly used in order to have non-black Arabs cast in black roles. They often don blackface, put on exaggerated fake buttocks, thick Afro curly hair and bright-red lipstick.

It is also indicative that for decades the first and only dark-skinned actor who played leading roles in Egyptian cinema was Ahmed Zaki (1949- 2005). But even he did not escape racial characterisation: He was nicknamed the “Bronze Star” and the “Black Tiger”.  
**Hana Al-Khamri - The outrageous racism that ‘graced’ Arab TV screens in Ramadan - [Al Jazeera](https://www.aljazeera.com/opinions/2018/7/1/the-outrageous-racism-that-graced-arab-tv-screens-in-ramadan/)**

**11 June 2018**  
Studying early childhood behavior, [Karl Groos] noted infants' delight at being the cause of an effect that they were able to repeat through their own actions—as well as their rage at being denied the continued ability to alter the world through their own actions. He called this “the pleasure at being the cause,” and time and research have shown that is elemental to human happiness.  
**Shaun Richman - Take this bullshit job and pretend to love it - [American Prospect](https://prospect.org/labor/take-bullshit-job-pretend-love/)**

**22 April 2018**  
However, as the long process of compulsory purchase, eviction and demolition was under way, between 1890 and 1895, it became clear that no philanthropic company was willing to come forward. And so, very reluctantly, the home secretary permitted the LCC to construct the dwellings, on the understanding that these would quickly be sold on to the charitable sector. The LCC was not to act as a landlord. Antipathy towards state intervention in housing was put most colourfully in Parliament by the member for Portsmouth, who told the house that such a thing was “monstrous”, and that “if such a principle were admitted, I do not know where it will stop. The next demand made of Parliament might be to provide clothing, if not carriages and horses, for the poor”.  
**Sarah Wise - The battles of Boundary Street – [The Planner](https://www.theplanner.co.uk/features/the-battles-of-boundary-street)**

